>> Sreenivasan: TOMORROW, U.S.
IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS ARE
EXPECTED TO BEGIN FOUR DAYS OF
NATIONWIDE RAIDS TARGETING
TEENAGERS SUSPECTED OF BELONGING
TO GANGS.
THE PLAN IS OUTLINED IN A
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
DOCUMENT SEEN BY REUTERS.
REPORTER JULIA EDWARDS AINSLEY
BROKE THE STORY AND JOINS ME NOW
FROM WASHINGTON.
SO WHAT'S THE PLAN AND HOW IS
THIS DIFFERENT?
>> THE DOCUMENT OUTLINES SEVERAL
KEY DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS THEY WANT
TO BE TARGETED IN THESE RAIDS BY
I.C.E. AGENTS.
THE ONE THAT WAS THE MOST
STRIKING DEPARTURE FROM POLICY
THAT WE SAW UNDER THE PREVIOUS
ADMINISTRATION IS THE TARGETING
OF 16- AND 17-YEAR-OLDS WHO ARE
SUSPECTED OF GANG ACTIVITY.
U.S. IMMIGRATIONS TOLD ME THAT
THEY CAN MEET TWO OR MORE
CRITERIA.
THOSE CRITERIA COULD BE THINGS
LIKE A GANG TATTOO, WEARING GANG
APPAREL, OR JUST HANGING OUT IN
AN AREA THAT'S FREQUENTED BY
GANGS.
SO OF COURSE THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF IMMIGRATION LAWYERS AND CIVIL
RIGHTS AND CIVIL LIBERTIES
LAWYERS WHO ARE SAYING THAT IS
NOT ENOUGH TO FIND SOMEONE -- TO
MAKE SOMEONE A TARGET FOR
DEPORTATION, ESPECIALLY A MINOR.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW DIFFERENT IS
THIS FROM THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION'S INTERESTS?
WHAT WAS THE THRESHOLD THERE
VERSUS WHAT THIS IS?
>> SO IT'S INTERESTING, AS I
WENT BACK AND I READ THE
NOVEMBER 2014 PRIORITIES FOR
DEPORTATION THAT OBAMA SET OUT.
AND THAT DID MENTION 16- AND
17-YEAR-OLDS, BUT THEY WERE
PEOPLE WHO HAD BEEN CONVICTED OF
A GANG-RELATED CRIME.
THAT WAS HIS WAY OF SAYING THAT
ALTHOUGH THESE PEOPLE ARE
MINORS, THEY'VE ENTERED ANOTHER
CATEGORY BY COMMITTING A CRIME,
LIKE WHEN WE SEE A JUVENILE GETS
AN ADULT KIND OF SENTENCE IN
COURT.
THIS CHANGES THAT, OF COURSE,
BECAUSE THESE ARE PEOPLE JUST
SUSPECTED OF GANG ACTIVITY.
>> Sreenivasan: IF YOU ARE IN
THE NEIGHBORHOODS, BECAUSE YOU
LIVE THERE, THAT ALREADY KIND OF
CHECKS OFF ONE OF THE BOXES,
RIGHT?
SO BASICALLY YOU CAN'T ESCAPE
THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND MOVE
SOMEWHERE ELSE TOMORROW TO GET
AWAY FROM THESE RAIDS.
>> I KNOW, I THINK THAT WAS
PROBABLY THE MOST STRIKING THING
THAT I SAW ON THAT LIST, WAS
HANGING OUT IN THESE PLACES
NOTORIOUS FOR GANG ACTIVITY.
I MEAN, THAT COULD BE A
SCHOOLYARD, THAT COULD BE RIGHT
OUTSIDE OF YOUR PUBLIC SCHOOL.
THAT COULD BE A PARKING LOT OF A
GROCERY STORE WHERE YOUR FAMILY
WOULD FREQUENT.
AND FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE THERE'S
REALLY NO WAY TO GET AROUND
THAT.
AND AS I WAS TOLD, THERE ARE A
LOT OF PEOPLE, PARTICULARLY
THOSE WHO HAVE FLED VIOLENCE, IN
PLACES LIKE EL SALVADOR WITH THE
NOTORIOUS MS-13 GANG, THAT HAS
STRONG ROOTS IN THE UNITED
STATES, A LOT OF TIMES THOSE
PEOPLE COME HERE, LIVE IN
COMMUNITIES OF OTHER EL
SALVADORANS, WITH PEOPLE WITH
STRONG TIES TO THAT GANG.
AND THEY HAVE NO CHOICE BUT TO
GET A TATTOO, OR THEIR LIVES
COULD BE THREATENED.
>> Sreenivasan: APPAREL, I MEAN,
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT GOES
BACK TO, BACK WHEN THIS
CONVERSATION WAS BETWEEN THE
CRIPS AND THE BLOODS IN L.A., IN
THE '80s AND '90s.
OH, WHAT ARE THE COLORS, WHAT'S
THE UNIFORM.
>> RIGHT.
I DO ACTUALLY REMEMBER BEING IN
THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS WHERE THERE
WAS A RULE IN MY PUBLIC SCHOOL,
I THINK, AGAINST WEARING ALL
BLUE OR ALL RED, BECAUSE THOSE
WERE DAYS WHERE THAT WAS SEEN AS
A GANG AFFILIATION.
SOME OF THIS ALSO COULD HAVE
CHANGED.
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF GANGS THAT
AREN'T AS OVERT.
THE BOTTOM LINE IS THESE AREN'T
LEGAL DEFINITIONS OF WHAT MAKES
SOMEONE A GANG MEMBER, AND IT'S
NOT EVEN ILLEGAL TO BE A GANG
MEMBER.
BUT AT THIS POINT, I.C.E.-- U.S.
IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS
ENFORCEMENT, CAN WRITE THE RULES
OVER WHOEVER THEY WANT TO TARGET
BECAUSE IT'S ALREADY A CRIME TO
BE IN THE UNITED STATES
ILLEGALLY, AND SO THEREFORE THEY
CAN COME UP WITH DIFFERENT
CATEGORIES OF WHO THEY WANT TO
TARGET THAT REALLY ISN'T BASED
ON U.S. CRIMINAL CODE IN ANY
WAY.
>> Sreenivasan: JULIE EDWARDS
AINSLEY OF REUTERS, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.